unit 1:
outcome 1:

I am a highly intelligent and determined mature young man. Hard work and reliability are only some of my wide range of key
employability skills which also included being highly punctual and the useful ability to meet deadlines consistently.
Furthermore a conscientious motivated personality combined with my ability to learn quickly help me to be flexible and carry
out my duties to a high standard. My aim is to become the best in my chosen career and this stimulates me to always be the 
best I can be.

1.1 describing the purpose n IT in modern business, reference links connectivity memory ect

IT in business is imperitive nowadays in business for many reasons such as Communication is essential for linking business to
customers not just in local areas but throughout the world and with the helo of the internet and social media we are more
connected than ever. Furthermore storing data, the compact hard drives as well as steadfast memory allows for more efficent
and less space comsuming storage allowing buinesses to have clearer accesss to data they need as well as requiring less space
and time to access the data. As well as security with the introduction of cameras identifying and preventing criminal 
activity is more effective than ever and things like motion sensors and password locked doors provide securer locations which
would be harder for crimals to gain access to. Finally Analysis, computers make analysing markets a must in todays
competitive business environment as they can swifty access the data needed as well as use sofisticated alogorythems to 
analyse the data and highlight key area where a business can gain an edge over the competition.
https://bizfluent.com/list-6779069-types-e-business-applications.html 

1.2 Describing the method, skills and resources needed to complete digital projects successfully,
what do you need to make projects successful? what tools? what skills? vscoddescribe hoe python ect, attention to detail ect

To make digital projects work you need a variety of different skills and resources for whatever task that needs to be completed.
For example an ample knowledge of computer programs is ideal but not necissary, however, what is necissary is the drive to 
independantly seek out these programs and having the knowledge of what you want the program to achieve for you, like when
making our text based games VSCode is vital to making the game as well as the knowledge of the prograsmming language Python to
be able to write code that the computer can recognise and translate into a working game. Futhermore Trello was a great help
in organising the team so everyone could tell what eachother was doing and monitor progress being made.
https://code.visualstudio.com/
https://trello.com/b/unB0BS35/pythongame

1.3 plan and carry out tasks using IT e.g making your website, how will you plan it? link to trello board

When using IT is is important to be very attentive to detail as the smallest mistakes can lead to everything not working.
Therefore we need to carefullly plan out what we are doing using something like Trello and constantly test as we go to make
sure we do not miss anything as well as knowing where the problem originated. Futhermore using a program like Trello can help
to maximise efficentcy and reduce planning time to help you finish your projects in a timely manner. Also Trello is great
for group projects as you can make many different lists and assign labels to the cards within the list for example giving 
each member a specific colour and assigning that colour to the work they are currently doing which would help to keep the 
whole team informed of what eachother is currently doing.

1.4 describe the risks of that might impact digital projects, what causes digital projects tp fail? why?

There are many risks when using technology that you must be aware of such as hardware failures when using hardware weather it
is an external spilled drink or an internal virus all of the saved data on the hardware can be corrupted and lost which can
lead to a devestating impact on the running of a business which is why back ups always need to be saved on something sucure
like the cloud as well as physical back ups for exceptional circumstances. Furthermore hardware exposures if your hardware
is infiltrated by a virus that steals your data you can risk exposing sensitive information to whomever stole it from you
leading to a loss of reputation for your business which could make current customers and potential customers lose faith in 
you. As well as simple internet failures for example, you are an independant worker who relies on the internet to complete
your work even losing your internet for a week through a blackout or an issue with the provider can be disatorous for your
business and many businesses are just a few weeks lost revenue from closure.
https://www.solarwindsmsp.com/content/technology-risks-in-business 

1.5 describe how you would go about selecting and using IT systems and software, 
how do you select the right type of technology fot the job?

I would ask an expert as I would not want to be stuck with the wrong product. However, if the product is for a minor thing I
would happily do my own independant research. For example if I needed a server to connect 20 different computers in an
office, it would be very inefficent to have the server crash often or malfuction often and would stop all 20 computers and
by extention employees from being able to work. But if i simply needed a printer that could pront in colour I would do my
own independant research online to see what printer I could get that would be affordable, have a long life span and print in
colour.

1.6 describe and provide analysis on how your chosen technologies have helped you achieve your outcome
how has trello helped you plan and how can git and gibhub helped with your codes version control

To achieve my outcome I have used HTML to write and import pictures into VScode and allow it to be converted into a webpage
with displayable pictures and text. After using HTML to add the contents to the webpage I used CSS to format the text and
images of the webpage and add a background image to each page. Furthermore I used a Trello board to organise what I had to do
and what I was currently doing and already done as to help me keep track of where I was up to and what was still to be done.
Lastly I used Github to publish my website as it is a way to publish none trademark websites that are designed to not make
any money.
https://trello.com/b/qKonr99Q/my-website
https://code.visualstudio.com/


1.7 describe legal guidelines and constraints that impact figital tech,
how does GDPR impact digital projects?

Due to the risks of digital technology and it being vulnerable to being stolen and the sensitive information that will be
stored there are certain guidelines that you must follow such as GDPR. GDPR has many rules to follow which are for the safety
of the customer as well as lessening the risks of the business. For example GDPR states that consent and right to be informed
of information that is stored is essential because it gives the business legal protection and right for sensitive information
to be stored on the database as well as the customer the right to refuse the business the right to store that data and a 
clear way for the customer to take legal action against any business that does store this data without a signature or stores
any data that was not specified to the customer without a signature or proof, such as a recored phone call proving that the
customers identity was confirmed, that the customer was informed that the information would be stored. Furthermore encryption
of personal data can stop businesses being fined for the breach of that data as well as secure the personal data of the
customer in the best way possible. Finally the right to be forgotten is also essential for the customer to be able to 
redact the consent given to store the data orginally given or when the customers data is no longer needed it is due to be
deleted, not only does this give the customer peace of mind and the power to change their mind it also gives the business
a clear rule to follow and strictly puts the power in the customers hands giving them less to worry about in terms of 
customer service as the rule is clear and failure to follow will result in fines.
https://gdpr-info.eu/

Outcome 2:

2.1 Review the ongoing use of IT tools and change approach as needed when making your own website, VScode, trello, 

When making the website VScode was great for keeping the whole project all in one place as well as storing images which is
perfect for constructing the contents of the website and designing it. Also the process of making the website was make clear
and simple through the use of trello which allowed me to focus on the what I was doing. Furthermore there was an issue I had
when trying to import a background image through the folder therefore I had to use an image link from online which is one
of the many reasons VScode is useful as it has the ability to complete tasks with more than one method.


2.2 Describe weather the the IT tools selected were appropriate, VScode, trello

The IT tools seleted were very fit for purpose such as the flexibility of VScode which allows you to use HTML and CSS all in
one place allowing you to organise the project much easier and gives you the appropriate information when makiing a mistake
to go and correct it. Also because I was doing this course online instead of through a classroom tools like VScode are a
great help as they are free tools which can simply be downloaded online which in my opinon overshadows any drawbacks which
may come with it such as the lack of options for sytling that comes with it although these can also be freely taken from
online places like google. I have have to use notepad to do the written work though which is free and comes with the computer
so there was no fuss in attaining it, it lacks spellcheck, wordcount adn many more useful tools something like Microsoft Word
would have come with.

2.3 Assess the strengths and weaknesses of your final product, are you happy with it, why not, what would you change,
should you review it yourself in the interests of openness

My product goes with a minimalist design which serves as both a strength and weakness as it makes the pages clear and easy
to read and well formatted, however, it highlights my weakness for creativity when it comes to designing. Furthermore I have 
had some simple suggestions to make it look better as well as the contents of the pages such as images and adding additional
writing where needed. If I had more time or was working in a team I would work to make the website look more professional as
well as make it more personalised.

2.4 describe further improvements you can make to your project

I am not the most creative person therefore coming uo with a web design is hard for me. So if I had more time i would have
done more to make it pleasing to the eyes as well as look for online tutorials as to better further my knowledge on how to
make more creative designs. Therefore I could make it look more professional and draw attention better. Also there are little
nitpicks I have that I deemed unimportant so I did not focus on them such as the fonts and colours being used which I could
taken some fonts from online or used the colour wheel to make the perfect colour I wanted to use for example I wanted to 
make all the text green but in the standard colours could not find a green that worked with the sky background which I could
have also solved by getting a background with the nights sky instead but I had trouble finding one.

2.5 Review outcomes to make sure they match requirements and are fit for purpose

When looking at the outcomes from the changes I was making to the design in CSS i made sure to do it in a step by step
process so that I could identify the exact bit of code the change was relating to as well as chop and change that code to 
make it more fit for purpose as to how I wanted it look although this process is very thorough it was time consuming. 
Furthermore I made sure to make the changes with the class method as this allowed me to experiment with only a small bit
at a time without distrupting the rest of the page before I made the other parts into the classes I needed them to be.

3.1 Review the benefits and drawbacks of IT tools and systems used in terms of productivity and effiency

In terms of drawbacks it is very cear that these projects need to be for individuals as the process of building the code is
unique to every person therefore it would be very inconvenient and time consuming to have others review your code constantly
nevermind try to make their own changes to the code. In terms of benifits as long as you understand what you want to do and 
have a good knowledge of CSS and HTML it is very easy to format the page as you want and insert the information you want to
be displayed.

3.2 Describe ways to improve productivity and effiency

I believe for me it would be very benifital to be in a classroom as my internet connection has been on and off during this
part of the course and there are also less distractions in the classroom as compared to at home where I have to managed the
dog, make sure the fence that was rebuilt went smoothly with the builders and general day to day dealing with peoplpe who
come to the door. There are also things like keyboard shortcuts which would come with more experiance with using VScode.

3.3 develop ways to improve productivity using IT in digital projects

There are always ways to improve productivity such as taking coding courses to further your knowledge and gain more
experiance in using code which would help you to be able to write the code without as much effort or thought as constantly
looking back and checkinig for errors. Furthermore you can use things such as keyboard shortcuts to improve day to day speed
of activities as well as saving the useful websites and documents you are provided with if you ever get stuck and need to
refresh you memory. As well as setting goals and tasks to help progression to be fastracked and not get off target.

3.4 describe how you would go about testing digital solutions

When making the website I made sure to worki n a step by step process so that when I made changes I knew exactly what bit of
code was making the change as well as seeing the impact it had on the webpage. This method allowed me to be able to clearly
see what bits of code was causing any prolems and gave me ample time to research solutions before implementing them.
Futhermore I made good use of the class method so that when I got something looking how I wanted it to I was able to make
the other areas the same class instead of rewriting all the code which is fantastic for being sure of the outcome that would
be produced.

Unit 2:
Outcome 1:

1.1 Describe the content and layout of each page

I have a total of five pages each consisting of a background image, links inbetween the pages and formatted text in boxes.
Page one has some information about me as well as some pictures I have drawn in my spare time. Page two has the answers to
the questions from unit one outcome one with relevant links and another picture that was actually for mothers day that i
decided to start adding too although I stopped because it wasn't coming out how I wanted it to look. Page three and four
have the answers for outcome two and three and finally page five has the answers for unit two outcome one.

1.5 Describe copyright and other restraits affecting websites

Copyright affects every website and if something like an image contains a watermark or a faded background signature or even
just a link for the full image the image is most likly someone elses property therefore to use that image in a legitimate
website you need to either get legal permission or pay for the content. Licensing your property (not just images but videos,
audio and much more can be copyrighted) is a must in todays environment becuase of the way things can be perfectly copied on
the digital landscape which is why it is more important than every to work with artists and designers to licesence their
content and avoid being sued by what could be a silly mistake.

1.6 Describe access issues that need to be taken into account - describe issues people with disabilities may face when 
using webpages and how they can overcome them

There are many disabilities that could affect someone trying to access your websites such as blindness, dyslexia or epilepsy.
In order to overcome some of these disabilities computers come with built in measures. For example there are marks on the F
and J keys on an QWERT keyboard so that someone who is blind can find there way around it as well as web browsers coming with
a text to speech option where by the brower will speak text which is highlighted or an entire page which is why it is important
to check spelling when making the text for your website. Furthermore for someone who is dyslexic or has eye strain they can
install apps to the computer that allows them to change the colours displayed on screen to make it easier to read or to reduce
the amount of strain on the eyes which can be implemented on the website itself as well. Also for those with epilepsy websites
can come with either a warning to stop the user from advancing to the page or simply not using flashing images to protect 
those potential users.

1.7 Describe which are the appropriate filetypes for websites

When creating your web page it is important to use HTML for the contents of the page as well as CSS or whatever fits your
website the best for design purposes as these help with formatting and importing the contents to the webpage. Furthermore
for things like pictures .jpg or .png are some of the types of pictures you will come across and it is important to be able
to find which file type the picture is saved as or you will nnot be able to import in into the HTML page. Also for things
like audio clips you can use .mp3 and many others as well as .pdf or .txt for text or word documents there are many different
file types that will come with all types of files and these need to be understood and managed carefully when importing them
into your HTML documents or else they will not work.

